Teaching for Uncoverage rather than Coverage 
============================================

This line represents an addition to the original document.
Mark Sample

I recently
[suggested](http://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/teaching-for-enduring-understanding/35243)
on ProfHacker that we should design our courses around “enduring
understanding,” which means, as I put it, focusing on what we want our
students to understand, rather than what we want them to read.

An [anonymous
commenter](http://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/teaching-for-enduring-understanding/35243#comment-283598126)
to that article wondered whether these two goals were as different as I
made them out to be. Especially in a discipline such as literature,
isn’t the whole point to read a set of books that more or less cohere in
some chronological or thematic way? By reading a selection of
deliberately-chosen texts, aren’t we implicitly delineating what it is
we want our students to understand?

My answer is—regardless of your discipline—*no*. And I want to use **the
distinction between coverage and uncoverage** to help explain why.

Once again, I’ll turn to Wiggins and McTighe’s book [Understanding by
Design](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0131950843/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=sampreal-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399349&creativeASIN=0131950843),
from which I’ve borrowed the notion of enduring understanding. Wiggins
and McTighe devote an entire chapter to “uncoverage,” which they
contrast with the more familiar concept of coverage. In terms of course
design, coverage refers to the amount of information covered by a class,
usually measured in the humanities by time, distance, or theme, or in
the sciences by scientific principles. A survey course exemplifies the
idea of coverage. “The British Novel of the 19th Century” or “American
History Since 1945″ spells out what will be covered in these classes;
however, the course names, the syllabi, or even the weeks spent in the
classes themselves may not actually reveal what it is about the
Victorian novel or post-war American history that is worth “enduring
understanding.”

To highlight the pitfall of coverage as the default model of course
design, Wiggins and McTighe recall a more “ominous” definition of the
verb *cover*: “to protect or conceal, to hide from view” (106). They
suggest that in the race to cover more ground—more history, more
literature, more formulas, more physics—we can end up actually
*covering* or *hiding* the underlying principles that make those
subjects important in the first place. Uncoverage, in contrast,
emphasizes revealing assumptions, facts, principles, and experiences
that would otherwise remain obscured. Uncoverage is uncovering in order
to learn something new. Uncoverage is digging down.

Wiggins and McTighe outline **five steps toward discovering depth** in
whatever material you’re teaching (and your students are learning):

1.  Unearth it
2.  Analyze it
3.  Question it
4.  Prove it
5.  Generalize it

Because steps two through five proceed from it, “unearthing” is a
critical first step. Wiggins and McTighe offer a concise explanation of
what they mean by “unearth it”:

> Bring to the surface and bring to light the misunderstood, the subtle,
> the nonobvious, the problematic, the controversial, the obscure, the
> missing, and the lost. (102)

Given the spatial metaphor of uncoverage as digging (unearthing) and
coverage as moving across, it’s tempting to characterize uncoverage as
“depth” and coverage as “breadth.” But Wiggins and McTighe caution that
depth and breadth should not be pitted against each other. In fact,
**breadth is a key component of uncoverage**, the weft to the warp of
understanding. Breadth means connecting disparate ideas, finding news
ways to represent what is uncovered, and extending one’s conceptual
reach to the implications of the material.

Taken together, depth and breadth mean moving away from the prepackaged
observations and readily digestible interpretations that go hand-in-hand
with coverage. This is not to say that a class on the 19th century
British novel forecloses the possibility of uncoverage, or that a
post-War American history class can’t involve true discovery and the
formation of atypical connections. Or—to go back to the anonymous
comment—that basing your syllabus on a bunch of books you want to teach
will inevitably shortchange your students’ enduring understanding. But
it *is* more difficult. It is *not*automatic. It takes planning and an
attentiveness to what it is you want your students to learn, *really
learn*, in your class.
